Therefore, we all clasp our hands and recite the
Buddha's name, praying for his protection.
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni,
Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners, when I first
established the Golden Cup Club for practicing the Six
Harmonies, my sole purpose was to show compassion for the Dharma
leader. Because while a Dharma
leader can guide the members,
if they don't know how to practice and
become too repulsive, the members
won't point out their faults anymore. If we only point out
their faults, they will improve.
Then, no
one will be equal to the Dharma leader
anymore, and there will be no place to abandon the word "I." At
that point, the Dharma
leader will be like a corpse
in a swamp, and others will step on
that corpse to avoid soiling their feet. That's what I
thought, and that's why I
established the club. I feel
compassion for the Dharma leaders
because, in reality, among the five
desires, fame is extremely difficult to detect
and extremely difficult to eliminate when establishing a
Dharma group.  The club has rules to follow, and
whoever follows those rules is
practicing selflessness.
What does
selflessness mean, dear fellow practitioners? It means that we just follow the rules and
practice accordingly, so there is no "self" appearing. Do
you understand this point?
Hundreds of people have already reached
that point, and there is no "self," right? It's not that there isn't a "self,"
but if we just need to formulate
something... Yen is saying this to
let the community think. So,
all the rules in the
Golden Cup Club that Yen has put forward are for the community to
consider, and then we arrive at the
final result. And whatever that result is,
we practice accordingly. One group practicing according to it is the same, a hundred groups practicing according to it is the same,
a hundred people practicing according to it is the same, a thousand
people practicing according to it is the same. There is no "self"
appearing, right dear fellow practitioners? There is
no "self" appearing because all
those teachings have led us to a state of "no
self," that's the good, but it's
just that there's no "self," no "mine." The Buddha
never preached a single word of Dharma.
This is understanding...  That's it, the
main point is this, this is what
we Buddhists should remember: The Buddha preached for 49
years, but He said He never spoke a single
word because He only spoke the
true nature of all phenomena, He didn't
add or subtract anything at all. That's called "
not saying a word."
49 years of preaching, and He declared He
never said a word, not even a word,
because that's the truth. If it's the truth, then
we don't add or subtract anything. It's the truth, isn't it, dear
fellow practitioners? If it's the truth, then it's inherently
so, that's why it's called "not saying anything."
But we have rules,
and we add to them. What do we call that? "Speak up,
dear fellow practitioners!" When we
have a problem in our club, or want to
do something, we discuss it together, and then we
come up with a common opinion. This common opinion is
consistent with eliminating the defilements
of the ego.
That belongs to the Dharma, and then there's
no "I" appearing in the discussion. Do you understand
this point? That is,
whatever we discuss, we come up with a
final opinion.  If something belongs to the Dharma, then
that is the Dharma where the self no longer
appears. But if something doesn't belong to the Dharma,
then there is something of the self. Do you all understand
this point? Only by understanding this can we
diligently cultivate merit, and that is truly
great, dear fellow practitioners. What belongs to
me is still very small; it only leads to rebirth in the
heavenly realms, while what doesn't belong to me only leads to
liberation from the three realms. Therefore, even in small matters, we should think about the Dharma of liberation, dear fellow practitioners, right?
Why wouldn't a wise person
choose the greatest benefit from
that task? They must choose, right?
Occasionally, you can practice for three days. The karmic connection
allows us to practice.
If you, dear fellow practitioners, are the leaders
of the club, and you leave
your Dharma center for three days,
and someone dies and needs your help, have you
assigned the task to anyone? Has anyone
done it?
If not, then you are failing
the world. This is the karmic connection for practice; everyone must
thoroughly understand this point.
Do you all understand this point?  That's truly insightful. Therefore, fellow
practitioners should joyfully hope that the
members of their community will develop
and accomplish all the things they have
accomplished. That is, I don't possess
anything; do you understand this, dear practitioners? Yen
usually follows
Buddhist teachings, learning whatever the Buddha teaches. So, whatever I learn,
whatever I know,
I will teach others, teaching
with peace of mind and with verification, dear
practitioners. It's similar to organizing the
three-day retreat for you;
last year I allowed everyone to practice this year,
so that the children can develop and
observe. I see that they need to
reach 80 minutes before I give instructions, but I
still let them ask if they don't understand anything.
Then, regarding the GP part, Yen says that if there's anything,
she will come and adjust it when she arrives.
If we don't give
others the task, they will never
grow and will always remain childish,
dear practitioners. It is
their stumbles that will make them
grow, so when we guide our fellow
practitioners...  We must have this in our hearts: we will
inevitably encounter
things that don't go as planned, and for those things that don't
go as planned, we will guide them to
grow and become perfect. Because
if there's no environment,
they'll just keep doing the same thing and won't develop, right, dear fellow
practitioners? That's compassion, that's the
aspiration for the Buddha Dharma. And in this world,
dear fellow practitioners, this time, and
next time, Yen won't have to worry about
the preparation anymore.
Everything is done, and this time and next time, if
Yen asks the Dharma centers to organize something, the
entire leadership of the Dharma center will have done it.
Vy Yen, that's impermanence, there's
no fault with the world. If
Yen, now, is completely pure and
departs, it's only if we don't say anything about the next organization that we'll say it,
but
this time, I've said everything I need to say, dear fellow practitioners.
From the way of living and interacting
with people in the family, to how to
develop the Dharma center, to
how we can truly
achieve the Dharma of non-self, purifying our minds
through harmonious practice.  Within the club, dear fellow
practitioners, and within our spiritual practice,
we have Dharma center
leaders, deputy leaders, and committee members.
We have taken on the responsibility of guiding
people onto the path of Dharma, and we must fulfill
our duties completely so as not to
offend others, dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore,
for me, before the club was established,
it was just a Dharma center. There was nothing
that the Dharma center leader could
do that the Dharma center members couldn't do; we
had to teach everything and supervise and
encourage everyone to do their best, dear fellow practitioners. Only then
could we move
forward and sow the seeds of a teacher's karmic connection. Dear
fellow practitioners, if you want to be a teacher, you
must teach others. And what should you teach? Teach what you
have achieved, right?
Once you have achieved something, you teach
others. People help you. So, dear fellow practitioners,
here you are practicing for three days, and outside,
everyone else is doing their own Dharma center work.
Your families are also arranging things, so
you can practice. That's what makes it peaceful, is
n't it, dear fellow
practitioners? Because if we...  If we are in a
Buddhist community and don't know how to encourage others, if we
don't know how to help them develop
their full potential,
then no one will do what
we have done, and we will be at fault towards the world
because we have made a vow, right? We
vowed that we would practice and
establish a Buddhist community, sowing seeds of connection with
those who have a karmic affinity for Buddhism.
Even if it's a small karmic connection, we will do our
best to bring everyone into the ocean
of Buddhist teachings. We will try our best. So, when
people ask us for help—when they are sick, when there's a
small, insignificant matter at home,
anything—they ask for help from the Buddha. Do
we accept
everything? Of course we accept everything. If we accept everything, then wouldn't
we be immersed in the world?
So, we must make sure
everyone can do it. If one person is absent, or busy, then
another can
do it. That's called knowing the
impermanence of things. I am impermanent, so if there's anything,
others can help the world. I have fulfilled
my duty. Whether I am there or
not, it's all the same because
I have given everything away.  What else is there to
cling to? Therefore, only those who contemplate impermanence
can achieve liberation, my esteemed fellow practitioners.
Otherwise, we cannot achieve liberation
because our minds are already attached to
what we do. My esteemed fellow practitioners, we don't allow anyone to do anything, we
don't teach anyone, we are not satisfied
with anyone's
work, we don't agree with anyone's work,
but we must adjust here. We
must see that those who have done something
excellent are the ones who can let
go. Don't
lack the heart of a
teacher. Where can we learn this? We
learn from the example of the Buddha, my esteemed fellow
practitioners. When the Buddha attained enlightenment, he
preached the Dharma for three weeks. Mara came and asked
him to enter Nirvana. He promised: "When
my disciples attain liberation—I
don't remember the exact words, but I remember the
content—that
when my disciples preach the
beginning, middle, and end of the Dharma with
complete meaning and text that leads others to enlightenment, only then will I
enter
Nirvana." We must learn that. So
today, I am sharing
this with you, my esteemed fellow practitioners, to let us know that
we should return to practicing the Dharma. But it must
have its root: eliminating attachment.  When we fall,
we practice walking meditation like
this to focus inward, to look
inward,
and this ability to look
inward will help us eliminate the seed of impurity,
as well as that
impure thought. What is an impure thought? Whatever the ego appears, that is impure. Greed, anger, and delusion
still belong to the
ego, understand? If it keeps appearing, we will be reborn into the cycle of reincarnation,
dear fellow practitioners. So,
whatever we can destroy, we must destroy it.
One good step is one good step, two
good steps are two good steps. So, while we are
in this karmic connection, we should continue practicing until
we become monks or nuns. Then we can practice the Dharma
more easily, we will practice better, right? There's no loss.
So, we should aim for monastic life, but we
must not rely on the idea that we will only practice when
we become monks or nuns. We must practice
now. If we have that kind of
mindset, then we can truly practice. [
Music]
[Applause]
K
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]  music]